

For our purposes we define System S as follows:
 * a set of variables (a, b, c, ...).
 * two logical operators, negation (~) and implication (->).
 * A set of axioms that consist of all substitution instances of any tautological formula of 3 variables or less.
 * Three production rules:
 	* if a formula of form P is a theorem then any formula of the form Q->P is a theorem.
 	* if a formula of form P->(Q->R) is a theorem then the formula with form (P->Q)->(P->R) is a theorem
 	* if a formula of form ~P->~Q is a theorem then the formula with form Q->P is a theorem.
 	
== Soundness Theorem ==
System S is sound.

== Completeness Theorem ==
System S is complete.

== Axiom Implication Theorem ==
For any formula of the form P->Q, if P->Q is a tautology and if P is an axiom then Q is an axiom or contains a subformula that is an axiom.
not true - (c->(b->(a->T)))->(d->(c->(b->(a->T))))


== Axiom Subsumption Theorem ==
Any theorem, T, of System S is either an axiom of System S or contains a subformula that is an axiom of System S.


== Proof ==
By induction on the number of steps required to prove T.

If proof requires 1 step then T is an axiom of S.   

If proof requires N steps, where 1 < N, then we consider what production rule is used to produce T...
	Let T' be the production immediately prior to T.
	By the induction principle we assume that T' is an axiom or contains a subformula that is an axiom.  

	If T was produced by an application of production rule 1 then T has the form Q->T' and thus T contains the axiom that was contained in T'.
	
	
	If T was produced by an application of production rule 2 then T' has the form P->(Q->R) and T has the form (P->Q)->(P->R).
	There are several possibles to consider:
		* either P, Q, or R contains an axiom.  In this case T will contain the same axiom.
		* Neither P, Q, nor R contains an axiom but Q->R is an axiom.  Since (Q->R)->((P->Q)->(P->R)) is a tautology then by the Implication Theorem (P->Q)->(P->R) is also an axiom and thus T will be an axiom.
		* T' has no subformulas that are axioms but T' itself is an axiom.  Since (P->(Q->R))->((P->Q)->(P->R)) is a tautology then by the Implication Theorem (P->Q)->(P->R) is also an axiom and thus T will be an axiom.

    